






House Prices: Advanced Regression Techniques
BY:
Eric Camargo
Bilal Naeem
Anees Nazir


Abstract: 
The problem we chose to face is how to deduce housing prices given a dataset and variables provided from Kaggle.  As data scientists, we must be able to derive conclusive data taken from variables that come from real-world situations.  We are to use these variables and the dataset to construct a regression model that is capable of deriving a given house's objective value.  Our approach to solve our problem and create our tool involves building a regression model, using the dataset to train our model and get as accurate prices as possible on as many of the houses as we can in the given dataset, which would be applicable to any house.  This regression model will analyze the data we get from kaggle for the houses to give accurate prices of these houses. The key results will show the accuracy of our model, as well as a fully developed housing price tool, capable of calculating any home's fair value, and should be usable by anyone to determine if a house is priced correctly compared to the market.  The significance of this tool is that it will allow people all over the world to determine housing prices from a more statistical perspective rather than an arbitrary or empirical one.  While this is more developmental instead of a real problem that needs solving, our tool should be very helpful to many people to better understand the housing market as well as understanding the value of their own homes.
Introduction:
Every year, house prices rise, requiring a development of a technique to estimate house values. A realistic approach is investigated using a narrowed sample of variable characteristics. If it relates to planning and economic techniques for buying a new home, people pay close attention. The purpose is to encourage owners with accurately estimating the selling price of a home and to assist purchasers in accurately predicting the time needed to purchase a home. Predicting overall value of a single home requires a rather more detailed strategy depending on the property pricing which includes the amount of bedrooms, the structure of the house, local neighborhood, which includes the nearby highways, schools, malls, and convenient stores which all contribute to the increase in housing prices. Traditional house price predictions are challenging, which is why there are several technologies used as housing market predictions. The target of this research would be to evaluate home values in terms of reducing the difficulties that buyers face. Buyers can utilize the data obtained to make predictions that enable them to make better decisions when buying a home. Which allows people to get the most out of their money when staying within their limits. The predictions evaluation is among different methods that may be used to calculate the price of a home. We calculated diligently when evaluating the price of housing considering house prices rise steadily and virtually rarely decline within the short or long term. This effectively analyzes past market patterns and pricing in order to better predict price movement. This accurately estimates the house pricing based on their finances and interests. Regression methods can be used in our solution to projection. Regression techniques such as Linear Regression and Logistic Regression.
Related Work:
In terms of related projects and related work, we were able to find several scientific articles with experiments and models very similar to our own project.  Among these papers, there were very different approaches and goals, however there was a shared focal point of deducing housing cost through different means.  For example, the paper ‘Associations between Street-View Perceptions and Housing Prices’, attempts to use a geo-location based learner that can determine the “street-view” variables related to a house and then deduce the price.  Not too different from our own project, albeit much more complex in its method.  The paper ‘Spatial Analysis of Housing Prices and Market Activity with the Geographically Weighted Regression’ attempts something similar as the first, except instead of using street view it attempts to use geographical location and spatial data to determine a house's price.
Data: 
For this report, we will be working on the data we acquired from Kaggle and the data includes many parts. There are 1460 samples inside this dataset, including 81 categories. We established additional features that may potentially become connected to the outcome following dividing the data into the arithmetic and qualitative categories. The factors are as shown in: Amount of bathrooms in the whole house, whether the original owners did any remodeling.  The age of the home after it has been remodeled including the house's landscape. Also the garage rating is computed by adding garage performance by the number of automobiles that can fit in the garage. 
The raw data we have consists of the identification of the type of house involved in the sale, Identifies the general zoning classification of the sale, and how much of the street is connected to the property. We have studied an instrument that has the ability to better accurately predict house pricing. With there being a lot of data to process, we had to break it down and use what we thought was the most essential instrument used to house pricing.
Methods:
Property buying and selling is a stressful and expensive process under the current system. Because the customer must travel to various locations and pay a commission to the real estate agent. Besides that, the client is unsure whether or not the property will be profitable in the future. Throughout this system, properties are sold by 3rd party agents, who may take a cut of the proceeds, resulting in fraud and, on occasion, incorrect predictions. As a result, this method results in the loss of the customer's investments and carries a high risk. To address this fault, an up to date and automated system is required. 
The current method requires a significant amount of manual labor, from filling out forms to filing documents and delivering manifestos. This adds to the workload of workers while failing to produce the desired results. Any changes in the current system require more manual labor and are more subject to mistakes. Errors are possible because the system is run and maintained by employees. 
World is moving so fast. So, E-learning has a major impact these days. Everything is moving away from manual processes and toward automated ones. The goal of this initiative is to... forecast housing prices in order to reduce the risk of foreclosure. The customer's issues are addressed. The current method is when a customer approaches a real estate agent to buy a home. manage his or her money and make appropriate recommendations. For his investments, he uses estates. However, this method is dangerous. since the agent may predict incorrect estates and hence as a result of which clients' investments are lost. The manual method that is currently being employed in the market is out of date and dangerous. To get around this, there is a requirement for an upgraded and automated system. 
To address the issues, we develop a method that predicts the price of a house using regression techniques. To construct the predictive model, regression algorithms such as Logistics and Linear Regressions are used. Furthermore, the new system will be both cost and time efficient. The operation will be straightforward.
Experiments:
In our prediction approach, regression techniques are used. In this project, we use Linear Regression and Logistics Regression Techniques for price prediction analysis.
Linear Regression: It uses a best fit straight line to establish a relationship between a (X) and (Y) where (X) one or more independent variables and (Y) is a dependent variable. It is also called a regression line. It demonstrates the linear relationship, which means it determines how the value of the dependent variable changes in relation to the value of the independent variable.
A linear regression can be represented mathematically as:
y=β0+β1x1+…+βpxp+ϵ
An instance's predicted outcome is a weighted sum of its p features. The learned feature weights or coefficients are represented by the betas (βj). The first weight in the sum (β0) is known as the intercept, and it is not multiplied with a feature. The epsilon (ϵ) represents the remaining error, i.e. the difference between the prediction and the actual outcome. These errors are assumed to have a Gaussian distribution, which means they occur in both negative and positive directions, with many small and few large errors.
Logistic Regression: Classification model is demonstrated by logistic regression. It is used to compute or forecast the likelihood of a binary event occurring. A logistic regression example would be using machine learning to determine whether or not a person is likely to be infected with COVID-19. This is known as binary classification because there are only two possible answers to this question: yes they are infected or no they are not infected.
Conclusion:
We utilized regression techniques to determine housing prices. The dataset is being used to develop and evaluate two distinct regression models: linear and logistic regression.  Also as a result, we may determine that now the algorithm produces the best use of regression analysis to estimate housing prices. The designed system has an user interface that lets users to Signup, Join, and Checkout, as well as enter house features as input according to buyers needs. The model predicts an appropriate price of a house depending on the user's preferences and displays it on the interface. As a result, the system assists users by giving precise pricing and decreasing the chance of a major investment. We presented a housing market prediction utilizing regression methods in this research, that reduces the difficulties with the present system and assists the client in determining the correct property price. Dealing with a big database to get a more accurate and realistic representation of the model was the main goal. We've only attempted very few Data Mining algorithms, that are regression methods, so we still really ought to develop a lot more models and figure out how they predict house pricing.




